Leading A Powerful Pilgrimage To Power
Begin with these 3 rules
1.) Arrange your students with experienced students in the front of the room and new students behind them.
2.) Beginner students won’t listen to you and will always look at what they see in the room, so give them experienced students to mimic.
3.) Teach to the middle strength students in the room, their moving energy will affect all the other students in the class.
TIP: If you plan on instructing your students to use props during class, ensure all your students have those props before you start class.

You as leader: your body, your voice, your gaze
Who Are You?
Open your class by introducing yourself by name.
Say the class title and duration as it appears on the class schedule.
Indicate if you have a physical focus (physical principle) for the class.
Example: “My name is Jennifer. We are here to take a 60-minute Journey Into Power together. The physical focus for today’s class is hasta bandha – hand activation/hand lock.”
Get your students MOVING.
Lead your students through the mechanical, repetitive Sun Salutation A and Sun Salutation B with you simply calling the names of the poses. 
No other cueing, just call the names of the poses.
Let the sound of your voice and how you say the names of the poses be the invitation for your students to generate heat in their bodies.

Your Body As Leader
Move With Purpose. Walk to a location in the practice space, stop moving and teach from there.
See your students. Keep your attention on your one physical focus.


Your Words & Your Voice
Create the intention of the sequence with the sound of your voice when you say the name of the pose.
One Physical Focus
Speak to what you see happening in the room. Say one cue for each pose, only if needed.
If 80% of your students could benefit from the cue, say it.
Keep your physical focus to one principle for duration of the class.
Speak only to that physical focus as you call each pose.

Active Cueing + Essential Language
Action > Body Part > Direction
Core Work: Tell your students how many repetitions you’re inviting them into.
Core Work: Tell your students how long you’ll ask them to hold each pose.
Use breaths or counting to measure the time in the poses.
Count up   1 – 2 – 3 – 4 – 5

Timing Savasana - corpse pose: the final pose of the class
In a 60-minute class, savasana should be at least 5 minutes with a minimum of 2 minutes of silence.

Environmentals:
Fans
Turn them to HIGH briefly to create a momentary air flow in the room during Eagle, Locust or Scissor Legs.
Turn them back down to LOW to keep the warmth in the studio space the rest of the class.

Wall Heaters
Keep them ON during half pigeon, double pigeon and frog. Turn them OFF starting with seated single leg extension.

Consent for Cool Lavender Towel (if used)
Always ask for consent from your students for the cool lavender towel.
Example: "I'll be coming around with a cool lavender towel for your forehead. If this is something you do not want, place one hand on your belly." [Wait to see who opts out] "I see you, thank you."
Students may be allergic to lavender.
Students may not want the towel placed on their forehead.
Students may want an unscented towel.

Closing Class
Acknowledge your students when their eyes are open, and they can see you.
Call your students by their names, thank them for coming to class.
Give the logistics for clean up – where the mat spray bottles are, where the laundry goes, where to put used blocks and straps.

